5.0 rtm relnotes (#1378)
NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget: docs/release-notes/NuGet-5.0-RTM.md

---
title: NuGet 5.0 RTM Release Notes
description: Release notes for NuGet 5.0 including known issues, bug fixes, new features, and DCRs.
author: karann-msft
ms.author: karann
ms.date: 04/02/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# NuGet 5.0 Release Notes

NuGet distribution vehicles:

| NuGet version | Available in Visual Studio version| Available in .NET SDK(s)|
|:---|:---|:---|
| [**5.0.0**](https://nuget.org/downloads) | [Visual Studio 2019 version 16.0](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) | 2.1.602<sup>1</sup>, 2.2.202<sup>2</sup> |

<sup>1</sup>Installed with Visual Studio 2019 with .NET Core workload 

<sup>2</sup>Available as an optional install with Visual Studio 2019 with .NET Core workload

## Summary: What's New in 5.0

> * Support solution filter when restoring the solution via CLI or in Visual Studio - [#5820](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5820)

Reviewer: Just changed bug title to:
Support VS 2019 Solution Filter feature. Also supports project not in solution, or unloaded projects. Need to restore complete solution (via CLI or VS) first.

@karann-msft  - Can you use that same text (or similar) in the summary?

Also, can you please manually change the note about that fix below to use that new title?

* `BuildTransitive` folder enables packages to transitively contribute targets/props to the host project - [#6091](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6091)
* Better support for PackageReference scenarios in NuGet IVs APIs - [#7005](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7005), [#7493](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7493)

> * `dotnet pack project.json` has been deprecated - [#7928](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7928)

Reviewer 2: `nuget.exe pack project.json`

Reviewer: @karann-msft  -  i've fixed the title of the issue. please change it here too.

> * Gen 1 Credential Provider plugin is no longer supported - [#7819](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7819)

Reviewer 2: It's not really no longer supported, but just depracated. We haven't removed it.

Reviewer: @karann-msft  - Perhaps you just use the title of that issue, which is now:
Raise a deprecation warning for Gen1 credential plugin

Author: upodated it to say
> Gen 1 Credential Provider plugin has been superseded by [Gen 2](https://aka.ms/nuget-cross-platform-authentication-plugin) and will soon be deprecated - [#7819](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7819)

## Issues fixed in this release

**Bugs**

> * When doing a NoOp restore, avoid obj\*dgspec.json write - [#7854](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7854)

Reviewer 3: This isn't properly rendered on the UI: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/release-notes/nuget-5.0-rtm?branch=pr-en-us-1378#issues-fixed-in-this-release

Maybe `obj\\*dgspec.json`?

Reviewer: based on that feedback, i changed the title of the issue to: When doing a NoOp restore, avoid *.dgspec.json write in obj directory

@karann-msft  - if that sounds good to you, please manually update the readme change with that title.

Reviewer: @karann-msft  - I changed the title of the bug a bit... perhaps just go use that.

Author: updated to use the new title.

* Permissions on files created inside ~/.nuget are too open - [#7673](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7673)

> * dotnet list package --outdated doesn't work with sources that need auth - [#7605](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7605)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `dotnet list package --outdated` doesn't work with sources that need auth - [#7605](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7605)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

* Add third party notice in our repo and VSIX - [#7409](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7409)

* NuGet.VisualStudio.IVsPackageInstaller.InstallPackage should install latest version when no version given - [#7493](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7493)

* --interactive support for dotnet nuget push - [#7519](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7519)

* When restoring with lock file, NU1603 warning shouldn't be raised. - [#7529](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7529)

* NuGet should not print project path during restore with minimal logging - [#7647](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7647)

* --interactive support for dotnet remove package - [#7727](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7727)

* Add back NuGet.Packaging.Core with TypeForwardedTo attrs - [#7768](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7768)

* plugins_cache needs shorter path to work well - [#7770](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7770)

* Prefer path for msbuild discovery if user didn't ask for specific msbuild version - [#7786](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7786)

> * nuget.exe /? should list correct msbuild versions - [#7794](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7794)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `nuget.exe /?` should list correct msbuild versions - [#7794](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7794)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

* MSBuild auto-detection always selects 16.0 after installing VS 2019 Preview - [#7621](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7621)

* dotnet list package on a solution outputs duplicate entries for framework - [#7607](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7607)

* Exception "Empty path name is not legal" when calling IVsPackageInstaller.InstallPackage on old projects and packages folder does not exist. - [#5936](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5936)

* msbuild /t:restore minimal verbosity should be more minimal - [#4695](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/4695)

* VS 16.0's NuGet UI has unreadable tabs due to color problems - [#7735](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7735)

* NuGet.Core & NuGet.Clients License.txt clarification - [#7629](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7629)

* Restore unnecessarily enumerates global package folder in attempt to determine type - [#7596](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7596)

* Errors from lock file enforcement should show up in Error List Window - [#7429](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7429)

* Fix NuGet.Configuration issues - [#7326](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7326)

> * Adapt to MSBuild updating it's install location.  - [#7325](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7325)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Adapt to MSBuild updating its install location.  - [#7325](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7325)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue

@karann-msft  - please manually fix

* NuGet.Build.Tasks.Pack should be a development dependency - [#7249](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7249)

* Add pack extension point for including debug symbols - [#7234](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7234)

> * dotnet pack should preserve dependency version range in the created nupkg. (even if floating version is used) - [#7232](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7232)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `dotnet pack` should preserve dependency version range in the created nupkg. (even if floating version is used) - [#7232](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7232)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

> * dotnet restore fails on authenticated source when user-level config also has source - [#7209](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7209)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `dotnet restore` fails on authenticated source when user-level config also has source - [#7209](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7209)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

* Pack should not restrict the set of BuildActions for content files - [#7155](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7155)

> * Using a projectreference which requires AssetTargetFallback to succeed, should warn. - [#7137](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7137)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Using a ProjectReference which requires AssetTargetFallback to succeed, should warn. - [#7137](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7137)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue

@karann-msft  - please manually edit this note

* Deadlock due to threading issues when calling into CPS (CommonProjectSystem) - [#7103](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7103)

> * dotnet add package won't use credentials from global config for a source specified in local config - [#6935](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6935)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `dotnet add package` doesn't use credentials from global config for a source specified in local config - [#6935](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6935)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

> * Threading issues with MEF being called on async codepaths - [#6771](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6771)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Threading issues with MEF being called on async code paths - [#6771](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6771)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to avoid a non-existant word.

@karann-msft  - please manually edit the note.

> * Signing:  error reported twice and without call stack - [#6455](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6455)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Signing: error reported twice and without call stack - [#6455](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6455)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have one space

@karann-msft  - please manually edit the note

* Installing a signed package with untrusted signing certificate should show error - [#6318](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6318)

* NuGet restore improperly NoOps when 2 projects are sharing obj directory - [#6114](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6114)

> * Cannot use PAT with dotnet restore on Linux with packages from authenticated feed - [#5651](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5651)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Cannot use PAT with `dotnet restore` on Linux with packages from authenticated feed - [#5651](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5651)
```

Reviewer: i've edited the title of issue to have tick marks -- (we'll try to get in the habit of that, as these release notes are auto generated from the titles).

@karann-msft  - please manually add the tick marks to this note.

* Remove obsolete Settings APIs - [#7294](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7294)

* Workaround restore timeouts on systems with 1 cpu - [#6742](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6742)

* NuGet prefers NTLM auth even if there are credentials in NuGet.config - add config option to filter auth types for credentials - [#5286](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5286)

* Enable EmbedInteropTypes for PackageReference (matching Packages.Config capability) - [#2365](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/2365)

## Known issues

### Packages in FallbackFolders installed by .NET Core SDK are custom installed, and fail signature validation. - [#7414](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7414)
#### Issue
When using dotnet.exe 2.x to restore a project that multi-targets netcoreapp 1.x and netcoreapp 2.x, the fallback folder is treated as a file feed. This means, when restoring, NuGet will pick the package from the fallback folder and try to install it into the global packages folder and do the usual signing validation which fails.<br>
#### Workaround

> Disable the usage of the fallback folder by setting the `RestoreAdditionalProjectSources` to nothing. `<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources/>` Use this with caution as it will cause a lot of packages to be downloaded from NuGet.org which otherwise would be have been restored from the fallback folder.

Reviewer 3: This looks a little weird on the rendered page: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/release-notes/nuget-5.0-rtm?branch=pr-en-us-1378#workaround

```suggestion
Disable the usage of the fallback folder by setting the `RestoreAdditionalProjectSources` to nothing:

`<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources />`

Use this with caution as packages that would be restored from the fallback folder will now be downloaded from NuGet.org.
```

Reviewer 3: Do we have documentation for the `RestoreAdditionalProjectSources` property that we could link to?

Reviewer: we have an issue to create those docs (#1358) - i've added your suggestion to that doc issue to do this once that doc exists.

---
title: NuGet 5.0 RTM Release Notes
description: Release notes for NuGet 5.0 including known issues, bug fixes, new features, and DCRs.
author: karann-msft
ms.author: karann
ms.date: 04/02/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# NuGet 5.0 Release Notes

NuGet distribution vehicles:

| NuGet version | Available in Visual Studio version| Available in .NET SDK(s)|
|:---|:---|:---|
| [**5.0.0**](https://nuget.org/downloads) | [Visual Studio 2019 version 16.0](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) | 2.1.602<sup>1</sup>, 2.2.202<sup>2</sup> |

<sup>1</sup>Installed with Visual Studio 2019 with .NET Core workload 

<sup>2</sup>Available as an optional install with Visual Studio 2019 with .NET Core workload

## Summary: What's New in 5.0

> * Support for restoring [filtered solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/filtered-solutions?view=vs-2019) in Visual Studio 2019 - [#5820](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5820)

Reviewer: should we mention the "if you restore first". let's talk.

Author: I don't think so. Release notes are quick one liners. Docs can go into more details.

> * `BuildTransitive` folder enables packages to transitively contribute targets/props to the host project - [#6091](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6091)

Reviewer: Perhaps this would be better:

`BuildTransitive` folder enables packages to contribute targets/props to the host project when the package is used as a transitive reference, instead of a top-level (or direct) `PackageReference`

Author: sure... we can match the issue title.

* Better support for PackageReference scenarios in NuGet IVs APIs - [#7005](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7005), [#7493](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7493)

> * `nuget.exe pack project.json` has been deprecated - [#7928](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7928)

Reviewer: has been deprecated --- might be clearer if it says "will now raise a deprecation warning"

Author: ```suggestion
* `nuget.exe pack project.json` has been deprecated and will raise a deprecation warning - [#7928](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7928)
```

> * Gen 1 Credential Provider plugin has been superseded by [Gen 2](https://aka.ms/nuget-cross-platform-authentication-plugin) and will soon be deprecated - [#7819](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7819)

Reviewer: will soon be deprecated --- might be clearer if it says "will now raise a deprecation warning"

Author: I believe the current text doesn't need further clarification.

* Remove obsolete Settings APIs - [#7294](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7294)

* Workaround restore timeouts on systems with 1 cpu - [#6742](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/6742)

* NuGet prefers NTLM auth even if there are credentials in NuGet.config - add config option to filter auth types for credentials - [#5286](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5286)

* Enable EmbedInteropTypes for PackageReference (matching Packages.Config capability) - [#2365](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/2365)

## Known issues

### Packages in FallbackFolders installed by .NET Core SDK are custom installed, and fail signature validation. - [#7414](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7414)
#### Issue
When using dotnet.exe 2.x to restore a project that multi-targets netcoreapp 1.x and netcoreapp 2.x, the fallback folder is treated as a file feed. This means, when restoring, NuGet will pick the package from the fallback folder and try to install it into the global packages folder and do the usual signing validation which fails.<br>
#### Workaround
Disable the usage of the fallback folder by setting the `RestoreAdditionalProjectSources` to nothing:

> `<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources />`

Reviewer: This might be better expressed as:

`<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources></RestoreAdditionalProjectSources>`

As an msbuild user, i find the syntax we recommeneded confusing...even though i understand xml well.

Author: ```suggestion
`<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources></RestoreAdditionalProjectSources>`
```

Author: ```suggestion
`<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources></RestoreAdditionalProjectSources>`
```

Author: Fixed in a different PR.

> `<RestoreAdditionalProjectSources />`

Reviewer: you aren't at your desk now...but if you like all those changes, feel free to publish.
if not, let me know and we can talk.

Author: I am merging the PR since I don't want to delay the release notes any further for micro adjustments. Feel free to start a PR with any additional comments.
